In this project (https://github.com/jsbeattie1/Project---Classifier-Comparison-Bank-Marketing-) I compare the performance of 4 common classifier models on data from a telemarketing campaign carried out by a Portuguese bank. (The dataset was obtained from the UCI Machine Learning repository: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/bank+marketing).

The telemarketing campaign offered customers incentives to make a deposit to a new account. The classifier model is designed to use information *available prior to first contact* to predict whether or not a customer will end up making a deposit as a result of the campaign. An effective model of this kind could be used to make future telemarketing campaigns much more effective. This particular campaign, for example, resulted in 4640 deposits out of 41188 customers contacted (a success rate of ~11%), whereas a campaign based on a good classifier could potentially yield a substantial portion of the deposits while contacting many fewer customers.

The main results were as follows:

The best model, using the F1 score (a combination of precision and recall) as an evaluation metric, was a decision tree of depth 10 and a threshold probability (for positive prediction) of 0.22. Nearly as good was a multinomial logistic regression model with 'sag' as the solver and a threshold probability (for positive prediction) of 0.20. The best k-nearest neighbors and support vector machine models were somewhat less effective. 

In all cases, prediction was rather difficult, with F1 scores never exceeding 0.5. This is because, as noted above, the models were restricted to information *available prior to first contact* in order to analyze their usefulness at that initial stage. (It was clear in this dataset that a customer *previously accepting* a telemarketing offer is extremely useful information, which should definitely be incorporated into marketing decisions, but information of that kind was not used when constructing/testing these models). 

Nonetheless, use of a classifier model with the predictive success obtained here could greatly increase the profit margin of a telemarketing campaign. If we assume, for example, that the campaign actually conducted was only mildly profitable - with profits of roughly $15,000 from a pool of roughly 10,000 customers (the size of the test set used in the analysis) - then a more targeted campaign built on the results of the best-performing model could be projected to yield profits 3-4 times as high (roughly $55,000). As such, it is highly recommended that banks make use of classifier models - in this case, a decision tree model as described above - to maximize the effectiveness of their telemarketing campaigns.
